## Lab: SQL injection attack, listing the database contents on non-oracle databases

**Lab Goal**: Exploit the category filter SQL injection to discover database tables and columns. Use these to exfiltrate the administrator accounts credentials and login to their account.

**Exploit Description**: The server constructs its where clause using string concatenation of the category url parameter. This allows an attacker to discover tables and columns in the database using the information_schema.columns view. By using this view the attacker can discover sensitive tables and exfiltrate information like users and passwords from them.

**Steps**:

1. Select a category filter in burp browser
2. Send the GET /filter?category=<some_category> request to repeater
3. Modify the category string to inject the following SQL "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT TABLE_NAME, COLUMN_NAME FROM information_schema.columns WHERE TABLE_NAME LIKE '%users%' -- -
4. A table called users_<some_random_string> and columns username_<some_random_string> and password_<some_random_string> should display on the page
5. Use the discovered table and columns to modify your SQL statement as such: "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT username_<some_random_string>, password_<some_random_string> FROM users_<some_random_string> WHERE username_<some_random_string> = 'administrator' -- -"
6. The username and password should appear on the page. Use these values to login to the administrator account

**Writeup**: We know that the information_schema.tables view exists so we can query this to get the names of tables on the database. However, information_schema.tables isn't able to give us column names so we'll sidestep having to read it and instead read information_schema.columns since it can return both table names and column names at once. To do this we'll start by figuring out how many columns we have to work with. By modifying the filter to "GET /filter?category=' ORDER BY 2 -- -" we discover there's at least two columns. Try incrementing by one and an internal server error is thrown, telling us our SELECT needs to return exactly two columns. We'll also need to know what types these columns use so we'll construct a UNION statement as such: "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT 'a','a' -- -". It should be noticed that the page is now displaying two a characters. This means that both columns are strings. To get the tables and columns in the database we construct a new statement as such: "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT TABLE_NAME, COLUMN_NAME FROM information_schema.columns -- -". This will return every single table and column in the database. While we could look through them all, it might make things less tedious if we narrow down the tables to viable candidates. A quick scan of the table names shows a lot of irrelevant tables with the occasional table that contains the word user or users in it. We'll use this to narrow our search by adding a where clause to our last query as such: "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT TABLE_NAME, COLUMN_NAME FROM information_schema.columns WHERE TABLE_NAME LIKE '%users%' -- -". This returns a single table by the name "users_<some_string>" with the columns "password_<some_string>", "username_<some_string>" and "email". This is almost certainly the table we want. We know which user we're looking for so we're going to modify our query to access this table and pull the username and password as such: "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT username_<some_string>, password_<some_string> FROM users_<some_string> WHERE username_<some_string> = 'administrator' -- -". If the query had failed it would be likely this wasn't the right table but in this case the query returns the administrator username and its password and displays it on the page. We can then take the password and use this to login to the administrator account.

Note: The LIKE statement allows you to do a wild-card match on whatever column comes after which is why we use it to narrow down our options.
