## Lab: SQL injection attack, listing the database contents on Oracle

**Lab Goal**: Exploit the category filter SQL injection to discover database tables and columns. Use these to exfiltrate the administrator accounts credentials and login to their account.

**Exploit Description**: The server constructs its where clause using string concatenation of the category url parameter. This allows an attacker to discover tables and columns in the database using the all_tab_columns view. By using this view the attacker can discover sensitive tables and exfiltrate information like users and passwords from them.

**Steps**:

1. Select a category filter in burp browser
2. Send the GET /filter?category=<some_category> request to repeater
3. Modify the category string to inject the following SQL "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT TABLE_NAME, COLUMN_NAME FROM all_tab_columns WHERE LOWER(TABLE_NAME) LIKE '%users%' -- -
4. A table called USERS_<some_random_string> and columns USERNAME_<some_random_string> and PASSWORD_<some_random_string> should display on the page
5. Use the discovered table and columns to modify your SQL statement as such: "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT USERNAME_<some_random_string>, PASSWORD_<some_random_string> FROM USERS_<some_random_string> WHERE USERNAME_<some_random_string> = 'administrator' -- -"
6. The username and password should appear on the page. Use these values to login to the administrator account

**Writeup**: This lab is more or less exactly the same as the "listing the database content on non-oracle database". We start by sending "GET /filter?category=<some_category> to repeater. From there we want to identify the number of columns in the database so we'll modify the category string and add an ORDER BY as such: "GET /filter?category=' ORDER BY 2 -- -". This works so we increment the value by one which triggers an internal server error, letting us know that we need to have exactly two columns in our select statement. We also want to check the types for the columns so we'll construct our union as such: "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT 'a','a' FROM dual -- -". This will return two a characters and display them on the page, letting us know both columns accept string values. Now lets construct our SELECT statement to grab tables we think we'll need. We'll bypass querying the all_tables view and skip straight to all_tab_columns since it will return both TABLE_NAME and COLUMN_NAME. We construct the query as such: "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT TABLE_NAME,COLUMN_NAME FROM all_tab_columns WHERE LOWER(TABLE_NAME) LIKE '%users%' -- -". This will return a few different tables but a quick scan should reveal one table named "USERS_<SOME_STRING>" that contains the columns "EMAIL", "USERNAME_<SOME_STRING>" and "PASSWORD_<SOME_STRING>". This is probably the table we want so we'll attempt to pull the administrators password from it as such: "GET /filter?category=' UNION SELECT USERNAME_<SOME_STRING>,PASSWORD_<SOME_STRING> FROM USERS_<SOME_STRING> WHERE USERNAME_<SOME_STRING> = 'administrator' -- -". This will return the administrator username and password and render it to the page. We can now copy the password and use it to login to the administrator account.

Notes: The major difference between Oracle and Non-Oracle databases in these labs are the view names and SELECT semantics. Oracle databases will fold all unquoted identifiers to uppercase by default which is why we use the LOWER in this lab. all_tables and all_tab_columns are functionally the same as information_schema.tables and information_schema.columns respectively. One last difference is that Oracle requires every SELECT statement to have an accompanying FROM statement which is why instead of "UNION SELECT 'a','a'" we do "UNION SELECT 'a','a' FROM dual".
